For Shona Holmes, simple pleasures such as playing with her dog or walking in her plush garden are a gift. Canadian Shona Holmes, who had a brain tumor, sought medical care in the United States. "They said to me that you had a brain tumor and it was pressing on your optic chasm and that it needed to come out immediately," Holmes said. Holmes is Canadian, but the "they" she refers to are doctors at the Mayo Clinic in the United States, where she turned after specialists in her own government-run health care system would not see her fast enough. Watch Holmes talk about her experience in getting treatment »

Even with the warning from U.S. doctors in hand, Holmes said she still couldn't get in to see Canadian specialists. Her treatment at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona cost $100,000, and she and her husband put a second mortgage on their home and borrowed from family and friends to pay for it. With the health care reform debate raging in the U.S., Republicans in Washington are seizing on Holmes' story and other accounts from Canada to warn against government involvement in the health care system. The Senate's top Republican, Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky, asserted several times on the Senate floor last month that a government-run health insurance option, which President Obama and Democrats want, could lead to a government-controlled health care system like Canada's. Watch McConnell talk about Canada's health care system

McConnell singled out Kingston General Hospital in Ontario as a prime example of what Americans should be fearful of: staggering delays in treatment. "I find it very frustrating that someone of that stature would not really have true knowledge of the numbers he is actually quoting on things," Zelt told us, saying the average wait time for a knee replacement is actually 109 days, and a hip replacement is 91 days. Watch Zelt talk about Canada's health care system »

However, Zelt does concede that in Canada's system, where every Canadian citizen is covered, there are limited resources, shortages and often delays.