There can be no March without the madness. When it comes to college basketball, the first month of spring ushers in a frantic slew of games to determine seedings for one of the most fervently watched sporting events in the U.S., known simply as the NCAA Tournament, or more often, March Madness. Like English soccer's FA Cup, much of the 68-team tournament's appeal is its egalitarian system of pitting traditional powerhouse programs like Duke, UCLA and Kentucky against relative minnows like Saint Mary's, Butler and Davidson. And both competitions offer the carrot of being able to impress scouts from top pro teams -- a first-round NBA pick can expect to earn anywhere from $755,000 to $5.75 million. Not bad for a graduate. "When you go to college, maybe your number one goal before you graduate is you want to be able to play in the NCAA tournament," says Bryce Drew, head coach and former player at Valparaiso University in Indiana (28-5, Horizon League champions). "It's the biggest stage for college basketball, and it's one of the biggest national events in all of America." Drew knows just how big an impact that high-profile stage can have on aspiring professionals from beyond the major college ranks. How it works:

Selection Sunday (March 15)

A 10-member panel determines seedings for the 68 teams that make the knockout  tournament

First Four  (March 17-18)

A format started in 2011, 8 teams compete to qualify in the main draw

Second round (March 19-20)

64 teams split into 4 regions: Midwest, West, South and East

#1 plays #16 in each group

Third round (March 21-22)

Down to 32 teams

Regional semifinals (March 26-27)

Known as the "Sweet Sixteen"

Regional finals (March 28-29)

The "Elite Eight"

National semifinals (April 4)

The "Final Four" is played at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis; minimum capacity 70,000

Championship Game (April 6)

One of the most-watched events in U.S. sport

"I had always dreamed of winning the game in the NCAA tournament (and) always dreamed of making the last-second shot. But that was before "The Shot."