Two weeks after the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, finding it remains a global search-and-rescue effort. The bulk of the attention is on the southern Indian Ocean, where a commercial satellite photographed objects that Australian authorities say could be related to the search. Authorities have called the find the best lead yet on where the missing plane might be, and it has prompted a massive search in the area more than 1,500 miles (2,400 kilometers) southwest of Australia. Australian officials say six planes were continuing the search Saturday after nothing was found in the area Friday. Britain's The Telegraph published what it said was part of a transcript of the final communications between the Malaysia Airlines flight cockpit and air traffic controllers. CNN has not independently verified that the transcript is genuine. The CEO of Malaysia Airlines confirmed that the plane was carrying lithium-ion batteries. And what about the batteries? A fire attributed to lithium-ion batteries caused the fatal 2010 crash of a UPS cargo plane in Dubai. Lithium-ion batteries used to power components in Boeing 787 aircraft were also implicated in a series of fires affecting that plane. So, in theory, a cargo of the batteries could have caused a fire that led Flight 370 to crash. But Malaysia Airlines CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya told reporters the batteries were routine cargo. "They are not declared dangerous goods," he said, adding that they were "some small batteries, not big batteries." Japan is sending surveillance planes, more merchant ships are on the way, and Australia, Britain, China and Malaysia are all sending ships to the area -- a remote region far from commercial shipping and air lanes. "We have to locate it, confirm that it belongs to the aircraft, recover it and then bring it a long way back to Australia, so that could take some time," said John Young, general manager of emergency response for the Australian Maritime Safety Authority,

Could pieces of the plane still be floating? Why did we first hear about them on Thursday, then?