Supporters of slain teen Trayvon Martin and his acknowledged killer continued Tuesday to battle over the significance of evidence in the case. A Martin family attorney insisted Tuesday that the former prosecutor in the case met with the now sidelined police chief to discuss the case hours after Martin died, overruling a police detective who the family says prepared an affidavit urging that neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman be arrested. Meanwhile, a friend of Zimmerman's told CNN that video of the neighborhood watch volunteer in police custody does seem to show injuries consistent with Zimmerman's report that Martin slammed his head to the concrete after the two exchanged words. FBI agents were in Sanford on Tuesday, continuing their interviews in a civil rights investigation of the case, which Martin family supporters say is a clear-cut case of racial profiling leading to an unjust killing. One of the people they met with Tuesday is Frank Taaffe, Zimmerman's neighbor and friend. On Monday, agents interviewed Martin's girlfriend, the 16-year-old girl who, phone records show, was on the line with him shortly before the fatal confrontation, Martin family attorney Daryl Parks confirmed Tuesday. Special prosecutor Angela Corey's investigation also continued. Martin's family and supporters say Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, profiled Martin, who was black, as "suspicious" and ignored a police dispatcher's request that he not follow him. Martin had a bag of Skittles and an iced tea at the time of his death. Zimmerman's legal adviser, Craig Sonner, said on Tuesday that criminal defense lawyer Hal Uhrig would represent Zimmerman and that Sonner would serve as co-counsel if the case were to proceed. Uhrig spent more than six years with the Gainesville Police Department in Florida before graduating from law school in 1974. On Tuesday, Martin family attorney Jasmine Rand insisted again that the former prosecutor in the case, State Attorney Norm Wolfinger, met with the now sidelined Sanford police chief on the night of the killing and overruled a police detective urging that Zimmerman be arrested. In a letter delivered Monday to the U.S. Justice Department, the Martin family said the Sanford police detective "filed an affidavit stating that he did not find Zimmerman's statements credible in light of the circumstances and facts surrounding the shooting." The Martin family said Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee and State Attorney Norm Wolfinger met the night of the shooting and disregarded the detective's advice, allowing Zimmerman to remain free. "Once again, George Zimmerman was the aggressor. He pursued Trayvon in this instance.