As he lies in bed, Ryan Buchanan's eyes flutter open. All this is happening in his bedroom, in the same home where Ryan grew up, learned to crawl, played with his dog and painted a California golden bear on his bedroom wall. Ryan's parents, Bret and Janine Buchanan, turned their own bedroom into a hospital ward for their eldest son. Metal shelves in the room are stocked with adult diapers, splints, catheters and syringes. Increasingly, families like the Buchanans are bringing children with complex medical needs home for long-term care. Today, children are being moved through these institutions more quickly, said Dr. Ellen Elias, director of the clinic for kids with special health care needs at Children's Hospital Colorado. Another reason for the change in care comes from the insurance companies' refusal to pay for long inpatient stays, Elias said. Children requiring long-term antibiotics, feeding tubes and/or ventilator support are now sent home with nursing care, rather than living months at a time in the hospital. Elias is the lead author of an article published in the journal Pediatrics in April that outlines ways to transition complex pediatric patients home from the hospital. "We send very complicated kids home for their parents to take care of them," Elias said. Home care places demands on parents' time and finances, as well as their emotional and physical well-being. Home care costs less than lengthy hospital stays, but it's still a major expense. The state-funded California Medical Assistance Program, known as Medi-Cal, covers Ryan's home care. Ryan's condition requires nurses or caregivers around the clock to place his legs in and out of splints, change his feeding bag and bathe him. Deeply religious, the Buchanans have faith that Ryan will recover and wanted to bring him home so he would be in a familiar setting. As an infant, he played baby Jesus in his local Nativity play, and as a teen, he would strum his guitar playing gospel songs for his church youth group.