Liverpool have suffered their worst opening day defeat since 1937, losing 3-0 to West Bromwich Albion on Saturday. Arsenal, in their first game since Robin Van Persie's departure, could only manage a goalless draw at home to Sunderland. Elsewhere, the Premier League began in explosive style, as Swansea recorded a 5-0 win over QPR, Fulham also beat Norwich by a five goal margin, West Ham celebrated their return to England's top division with a 1-0 victory over Aston Villa, while Reading and Stoke shared the points in a 1-1 draw. Liverpool and West Bromwich were both playing their first games under new management, with Brendan Rodgers having moved to Anfield from Swansea and Steve Clarke taking his first managerial post at Albion after being sacked from his assistant manager's role with Liverpool at the end of last season. "I thought the scoreline was harsh, I've got to be honest," Rodgers told the Liverpool website. Liverpool finished the game with ten men, after defender Daniel Agger was sent off for a foul on West Bromwich striker Shane Long, giving away a penalty in the process. "Obviously then with 10 men and chasing the game, it becomes difficult," the former Swansea manager explained. Liverpool have not had such a disastrous start since Chelsea beat them 6-1 on the opening day of the 1937 season. Boos rang around the Emirates as the final whistle blew on the first game of Arsenal's post-Van Persie era. Manager Arsene Wenger gave debuts to new signings Lukas Podolski and Santi Cazorla, and introduced Olivier Giroud in the second half for the Frenchman's first competitive showing in an Arsenal shirt. Despite controlling the majority of the play, Arsenal couldn't find the net to get their season off to a winning start. Sunderland always play the same way against us, in the final third and defensively, and if you're not sharp enough to make the difference early in the game it becomes difficult." Sunderland put in a dogged display to take their first point of the season, and had a couple of opportunities to win the match from set pieces, despite their defensive set up. "It's always nice to win your first game of the season and to win away from home is always important because it can give you so much confidence going forward," explained Swansea manager Michael Laudrup to the club website.