The probing, highly personal examination that a presidential candidate uses to pick a running mate is uniquely American. Yet it is entirely shielded from public view: Those who submit themselves to it must bow to a secret, often uncomfortable "deep dive" for information by a small, exclusive tribunal of lawyers and accountants trying to wrest any skeletons out of a candidate's closet. "It's every aspect of your life," former Al Gore 2000 presidential campaign manager Donna Brazile said. As former Bob Dole 1996 campaign manager Scott Reed put it, the examination includes digging into "sex, drugs and rock and roll." Since presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's vice president meetings and deliberations are secret, a typical campaign practice, it's anyone's guess who is actually being vetted. But if Ohio Sen. Rob Portman, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, New Hampshire Sen. Kelly Ayotte, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell, New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and other potential candidates have been asked and have agreed to a vetting, they are virtually assured a process even more intense than the vetting they faced while running for office. Who might run with Romney? It's "the most intimate examination known to politics," Sen. John McCain's 2008 vetting chief A.B. In his book "An Amazing Adventure," written with his wife, Hadassah Lieberman, Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman said that in 2000, Democratic presidential candidate former Vice President Al Gore's initial list of potential running mates contained 30 or 40 names. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker shoots down VP talk

Acting essentially as private investigators, vetters mine the Internet and public records, like newspaper articles and disclosure forms, for information on the potential candidates. Culvahouse wrote that he discussed other matters with Palin: including daughter Bristol's pregnancy, "which the governor raised in a private discussion," ethical allegations against the governor and whether she would authorize a strike against Osama bin Laden if it meant civilian casualties. Of Culvahouse's vetting, Palin wrote: "By the time his team of attorneys finished peppering me with questions, I decided that if a person had ever done a single dark and secret thing in their lives, Culvahouse's people would not only find out about it but get eyewitnesses, photos and blood samples."