-- Clarence Darrow

A moussed, tousled brown hairstyle is murder trial defendant Phil Spector's latest look. Since April, the murder trial of music producer Phil Spector has been playing out in Los Angeles, California, oddly contrasting gruesome CSI details with the defendant's daily fashion emergency. Their impressions of Spector's over-the-top fashion statements and  nebbish-like demeanor could weigh as heavily, legal analysts say, as any of the conflicting expert testimony about ballistics, blood spatter and other forensic evidence. Spector, a diminutive aging hipster who invented the "Wall of Sound" and worked with the Beatles and Ike and Tina Turner, is accused of second-degree murder. He allegedly shot Lana Clarkson, a B-movie actress-turned-House of Blues hostess whose film credits include "Barbarian Queen" and "Amazon Women on the Moon." As the sun began to rise on February 3, 2003, police found her body slumped in a chair in the foyer of Spector's 8,500-square-foot Pyrenees-style castle, a Colt Cobra Special .38-caliber revolver at her feet. The question the jury must answer is straightforward: Did Spector, 67, shoot Clarkson, 40, in the face after she spurned his romantic advances and tried to leave his home? Or did she shoot herself, either by accident or in suicidal despair over her flagging Hollywood career? The jurors didn't hear directly from Spector. The most damaging testimony came from his Brazilian-born driver, who said the boss wandered out of the castle that morning and announced, "I think I killed somebody." "Sometimes the most important thing about a defendant's court appearance is the defendant's appearance," Court TV anchor Lisa Bloom said. "Looks count when it comes to a criminal trial," agreed Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. Levenson, who observes and analyzes high-profile trials, has written a scholarly article on the subject. Geragos says a defendant can "make or break himself" »

At Spector's trial, jurors have heard about his history of threatening women with guns, although one witness left an impression more comic than fearsome when she offered this description of the gun-toting defendant:

"He looked like Elmer Fudd.