The political gridlock that has impeded progress on Japan's myriad policy challenges may be broken at long last. With their thumping victory in the Upper House of Japan's parliament -- known as the Diet -- the ruling coalition, led by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), now effectively controls the country's legislative body. But now there are no excuses; power brings responsibility and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has to deliver on all the promises and pledges that have piled up over the past several months. Abe is credited with helping the Japanese economy regain its mojo after two decades of stagnation, but it's not time for any "mission accomplished" complacency. So-called "Abenomics" involves three policy "arrows" -- extreme monetary easing, massive fiscal stimulus and sweeping structural reforms. Igniting the stock market, however, is the easy part and remains a fragile success; when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke mentioned "tapering" global markets, including Japan's Nikkei, swooned. Abe's recovery strategy aims to reflate the economy and boost consumption, but structural reforms are the key to a sustainable growth strategy. When Team Abe unveiled a beta version of its structural reforms in June, markets reacted badly because there was nothing sweeping about the tentative measures. There is widespread and justifiable concern that Abe will have a tough time enacting bold structural reforms and anything less than audacious will disappoint markets and undermine positive trends and perceptions. Back in the driver's seat, the LDP may no longer feel the same sense of urgency about structural reforms and powerful constituents will lobby the party to water down or abandon aggressive revamping. petition with eleven million signatures. Domestic firms are not as competitive and are very anxious about the prospects of market opening measures, while the medical lobby is painting Armageddon scenarios about the consequences for national health care insurance, something that Japan's aging society wants to protect from the vagaries of impersonal market forces.