In the days immediately following the presidential election, Martin Mendez was in a blue funk. A Latino Republican, he watched with dismay as poll after poll revealed that not only did President Barack Obama win a second term in office, but he did so with a sizable portion of the Hispanic vote. The loss was especially painful for Mendez, who spent hours knocking on the doors of Hispanics around Denver in an effort to convince them to give the GOP a try. "Out in the field in Denver, the comments I got ... the feedback was Mitt Romney's for the millionaires. We're these poor Hispanics, so we're going to vote for Obama because he's for the little guy," Mendez said, his voice full of exasperation. "There is this class warfare game that Democrats play every single election cycle. The growing influence of Latinos, blacks, women and young people in America is not a new story. Seven ways religious diversity played in the election

Earlier this year, even Romney, in the secretly-recorded video where he attacked the so-called "47%," understood what was going on. "And if the Hispanic voting bloc becomes as committed to the Democrats as the African American voting bloc has in the past, why, we're in trouble as a party and, I think, as a nation." On Tuesday, it did. The growing political power among other minority groups and vocal youth vote has meant that the party these groups largely back -- Democrats -- netted huge gains during this election cycle. "The minority groups that carried President Obama to victory are on track to become a majority of the nation's population by 2050," researchers Paul Taylor and D'Vera Cohn wrote in an analysis piece for the Pew Research Center. Opinion: GOP voter suppression fueled black turnout

More women voted for Obama than Romney

While it is too early to tell what type of long-term impact these newly powerful Americans will have on the nature of politics, exit polling suggests their impact was felt in both top of the ticket, down-ballot races and state initiatives across the country.