They come from South Carolina's rural counties and its booming cities. On this summer day, Ashley Hendrix, 24, is eight months pregnant with her first child and one of 16 women at the Phoenix Center's Serenity Place. South Carolina's state supreme court is alone in upholding the prosecution of pregnant women for the damage drugs might do to their unborn children. In recent years, Missouri and North Dakota have ruled against charging pregnant women with neglect and endangerment. Illegal substances -- marijuana, methamphetamine, cocaine and prescription drugs -- consumed Hendrix for more than a decade. Since 1989, at least 126 women in South Carolina have been arrested during their pregnancies, according to the National Advocates for Pregnant Women. "Word on the street" in South Carolina, says Stephen Donaldson, program manager of a drug-treatment facility in Charleston County, "is if you use during pregnancy, you're being prosecuted or you're losing your baby." Over the last 15 years, that message has driven many women to Serenity Place, a residential treatment center designed for pregnant women and new mothers. Here, the ultimate goal is to help the women recover from their addiction but Serenity also strives to give the women the confidence to become better mothers. "I'm grateful everyday for being here and I'm grateful to have my baby with me," says a freckled Kim Clark, 28, who gave birth to her son Jaelyn at the center. And I've learned a lot about myself. I've been taught things here." She graduated in August, has her own apartment now and works to support herself and her son. Others were sent by the state's Department of Social Services. "My biggest fear was the [health of the] baby, but right behind that was that 'I'm going to go to jail'," says Sandria Doremus, one of Hendrix' classmates at Serenity. Afraid of being turned in for her opiate addiction, she delayed getting prenatal care. Doremus, 37, arrived at Serenity after a hospital reported her drug use to law enforcement officials, as required by law. She cuddled her 8-month-old son, Matthew, when CNN visited the center in July. Watch the women of Serenity Place share their story »

In 1997, the South Carolina Supreme Court ruled that a fetus in the third trimester was viable and charges of child abuse, neglect and murder could apply to the mother. "These are addicts who become pregnant," says Lynn Paltrow, executive director of the National Advocates for Pregnant Women. She has fond memories of her grandfather, but one morning, shortly after her 12th birthday, Hendrix watched her 54-year-old grandfather die from a heart attack. Percocet. Bob Ariail, solicitor of Greenville, says his district's policy is a far cry from the 1990s, when then-South Carolina Attorney General Charlie Condon, an anti-abortion advocate, publicly declared he would aggressively crack down on pregnant mothers accused of substance abuse.