Sen. Ted Cruz, the conservative firebrand from Texas, became the first Republican to announce his campaign for the presidency, and he spent Monday morning telling a crowd at the largest Christian university in the world to imagine what the country will be like when he takes office, and pitching his personal history as a key part of his campaign. "These are all of our stories," Cruz told the audience Monday, roaming around the circular stage at Liberty University, in Lynchburg, Virginia, opening his remarks by spotlighting his family history and his own path to Washington. "These are who we are as Americans. And yet for so many Americans, the promise of America seems more and more distant." Cruz drew on the past only to focus on the future, repeatedly and emphatically asking the Liberty University student audience to "imagine" the U.S. under conservative leadership -- laying out his vision for the country and a Cruz presidency. The senator from Texas, who burst into the national limelight with his staunch opposition to Obamacare and his willingness to shut down the federal government, presents a direct challenge to the expected bids of establishment Republicans such as Florida Gov. Monday's event was the last part of a carefully coordinated media rollout, following Cruz's announcement of his candidacy in a 30-second video message posted on Twitter shortly after midnight on Monday, roughly 24 hours after the Houston Chronicle first reported his planned announcement. Ten thousand students from Liberty University crowded into the university's main arena for Cruz's announcement. The venue choice at this socially conservative campus aims to give Cruz an early boost among evangelical voters, who will be key to boosting presidential hopefuls in states like Iowa and South Carolina that have early nominating contests. Not all in the audience were guaranteed Cruz supporters: Several attendees sported red "Stand with Rand" shirts, repping Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul, who is slated to announce his candidacy early next month. Jerry Falwell Jr., the university's president and son of its founder and evangelical icon, introduced Cruz as a senator who "has gone against the tide" and a "man of great character," all while stressing that the university does not endorse candidates for office.