Beth Rutstein rolls up the sleeves of her T-shirt, juggles a stack of fliers and knocks on the door of a stranger's home. She's on a mission to save lives. After wiping sweat from her face beneath the sweltering afternoon sun on a recent Thursday, she ascends another set of stairs leading to a front door and knocks. "We're here doing free HIV testing," she tells them, handing over a flier. "We decided to come here because 19143 has one of the highest rates of HIV in the entire city." That's the ZIP code for southwest Philadelphia, one of many urban neighborhoods across the United States that account for the bulk of the nation's HIV cases. Rutstein, a second-year medical student, is one of 60 outreach volunteers who spent their summer going door-to-door alongside health care workers testing residents within the 19143 ZIP code. This part of Philadelphia -- like many other urban neighborhoods in the United States -- has an HIV infection rate on par with many sub-Saharan African nations, including Sierra Leone and Ghana, according to UNAIDS. In fact, more Americans are living with HIV infections today than ever before partly because of an increase in testing and treatment options, according to the Centers for Disease Control. AIDS survivor: Epidemic isn't over yet

In Philadelphia, more than 19,000 residents have HIV, with the highest rates among black residents living in low-income neighborhoods with limited access to health care facilities and services. "About 40 to 50 neighborhoods account for about half of the United States' infections," said Amy Nunn, founder of Philadelphia's Do One Thing, Change Everything Campaign. To change that, Nunn and her team enlisted volunteers to go to those neighborhoods, knock on doors, get people tested and, if HIV positive, get them free treatment. Inside the mobile medical RV -- complete with two examination rooms and waiting area -- health worker Danielle Parks swabbed Brown's cheeks and gums as part of the routine, rapid HIV test.