Millions of fans on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border are mourning the death of Jenni Rivera, whose performances of soulful ballads sold out concert halls and made the singer a household name for many. Crews searched for the remains of Rivera and six others Monday amid the wreckage of a plane that crashed in a remote, mountainous area in northern Mexico on Sunday. It is a great tragedy," her brother, Gustavo Rivera, told CNN en Español. Family members were planning to travel to Mexico on Monday as investigators work to determine what caused the crash. Jenni Rivera is mourned, but still inspires

Another brother, Juan Rivera, seemed to hold out hope at a news conference Monday evening, saying: "In our eyes we will have faith that our sister will be OK. We have no confirmation of her body being recovered, dead or alive." The small Learjet plane that Rivera was flying in was 43 years old, the state-run Notimex news agency reported, citing the director of civil aviation for Mexico's Transportation Ministry. Collecting evidence at the scene could take up to 10 days, Alejandro Argudin said, according to Notimex. According to records from the U.S. agency, the airplane was substantially damaged during a 2005 accident when it struck a runway marker near Amarillo, Texas. As the investigation into Sunday's crash continued, fans, family members and entertainers said they were devastated to learn of Rivera's death. Known to fans as "La Diva de la Banda" or The Diva of Banda Music, Rivera was well-established as a musical powerhouse with her Spanish-language performances of regional Mexican corridos, or ballads. Flashback: Rivera reflects on her success

In recent years, she had been working to crack the English-language U.S. market and was reportedly on the verge of a crossover with a sitcom inspired by the success of "I Love Jenni," a Spanish-language reality TV show on Telemundo's mun2 network. "She was a singer in a genre of music that's largely dominated by males, and she brought a powerful voice to that genre where she sung frankly about her struggles to give her children a better life in this country," the Florida Republican senator said. In an interview with CNN en Español in 2010, Rivera spoke about how she once sold cans for scrap metal and hawked music records at her family's stand at a Los Angeles flea market.