Bill Richard knew his son wasn't going to make it. But the father of three told his wife he couldn't stay by 8-year-old Martin's side. The boy's body was torn apart by an explosion near the finish line of the Boston Marathon. Speaking from the witness stand at Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's trial on Thursday, Richard told jurors he was faced with a heartbreaking choice. "I knew in my head that I needed to act quickly, or we might not only lose Martin," he said. "We might lose Jane, too." Moments after the blast, Richard had stumbled toward Jane, his 7-year-old daughter. It was blown off." So Richard left one son to die near the marathon finish line, and shielded his other son's eyes from the carnage as they raced to the hospital, hoping that doctors could save his daughter's life. "It was," Richard said Thursday, "the last time I saw my son alive -- barely." Richard's description of the explosion's horrifying aftermath capped a day of dramatic testimony as survivors shared their stories in the second day of the high-profile trial. Tsarnaev's attorneys admit that he carried out the 2013 attacks, which killed three people and injured more than 260 others at the marathon. A fourth person, an MIT police officer, was ambushed and killed in his patrol car three days after the bombings as Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, allegedly ran from police. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed after a gunbattle with police. They argued Thursday that now isn't the right time for jurors to hear the string of harrowing stories from survivors of the explosions, arguing that testimony should be part of a later phase of the trial, when jurors will decide what penalty Tsarnaev should face. On Thursday, jurors relived the moments after the marathon bombings through the eyes of some of the people most affected by the blasts. Jeff Bauman was suspicious as soon as he noticed a black backpack on the ground near the finish line. He kept repeating to himself, "This is messed up, this is messed up, this is messed up."