Sure, when it comes to television's most prestigious award, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences tries. When the center of gravity moved to cable, the Emmys followed, giving "The Sopranos," "The Shield" and "Mad Men" the same kind of attention it once gave "Hill Street Blues" and "Picket Fences." When new genres and new technology arose, the Academy responded, creating categories for reality shows and "short-format live-action entertainment programs" (i.e., online video). Even the most questionable of the bunch -- "Mad Men," "The Big Bang Theory," Al Pacino's love it-or-hate it turn as Phil Spector -- represent a level of professionalism and quality that should be acknowledged. Then why do the 65th Primetime Emmys feel so ... meh? One reason is the same-old, same-old factor: that the Emmys tend to nominate the same shows (or the same types of shows) every year, says longtime awards watcher Tom O'Neil of Goldderby.com. For example, he points out, this year there's only one new show among the 12 nominees for best drama and best comedy, and that's "House of Cards," which came from a non-network, Netflix. (Another show, FX's "Louie," was nominated for the first time, though it just concluded its third season.) 'House of Cards' creator Beau Willimon plays a solid hand

Grantland's TV critic, Andy Greenwald, adds a corollary to O'Neil's observation. Nowadays, there's so much worthwhile programming out there that the Emmys, even when nominating good shows, feel safe and conservative -- and, therefore, somewhat dull. "For the most part, the Emmys do a pretty good job considering the impossibility and the ridiculousness of their task," he said. The new, new TV golden age

He compares the awards with the two other major entertainment honors, the Oscars and Grammys. The former are often so hidebound to prestige productions -- you know the kind -- that they make us angry, Greenwald says. And the Emmys? Everyone's a critic

Indeed, it's often more fun -- especially in these days of 500 channels and a comparable number of interesting shows -- to single out the so-called snubs. Fans on Twitter were not happy.