Big in Japan. It's a phenomenon well known to generations of rock bands, elevated from relative obscurity at home to apparent god-like status in the Land of the Rising Sun. Met at the airport by screaming fans, groups struggling to get in their own charts get an unexpected -- and often career-reviving -- taste of Beatlemania, Orient-style. This weekend, it's going international -- "Live at the Budokan" on tour, in Longchamp. Thousands of enthusiastic Japanese will invade Paris for an event that some say has become the crowning jewel in a new national obsession. It's not pop music, but horse racing -- a sport that has emerged from a murky association with underworld gambling to become an aspirational pastime for a younger generation of Japanese racegoers and a rival to the likes of baseball and football. "Many years ago, horse racing had a kind of bad reputation but there has been a big change in perception among Japanese citizens," Fumitaka Tsuruoka, the Paris representative for the Japan Racing Association, told CNN. A party of some 5,000 horse-racing-mad fans is traveling to the French capital to see if their nation can finally end its hoodoo in one of the sport's premier events -- the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe. The passion and desire to win European racing's richest prize -- with a purse of €4 million ($5.4 million) -- is almost verging on an obsession, but it is an obsession with good reason. One of Japan's most famous horses, Deep Impact, was backed at 1-2 to win in 2006 only to falter rather dramatically, while three years later El Condor Pasa had boasted a lead of five lengths but was beaten on the line by Montjeu. L'Arc is effectively the jewel missing in the crown of Japanese racing, the likes of the Dubai World Cup and Melbourne Cup already conquered long ago, and it is an event that will be watched on television by some 30 million people in Japan alone, nearly a quarter of its entire population. "The Japanese have made a lot of efforts to catch up with European and American racehorses for more than 50 years since the first overseas challenge in 1958, and one of the goals is to win the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe. We are almost there." "I heard they had bets of about €500 each on Deep Impact and, had it won, the story goes they wouldn't have even cashed it in as they wanted to keep the memento," says Ed Dunlop, who has enjoyed more success than most as a foreign trainer on Japanese soil. The Briton is best known for Snow Fairy, which in 2010 and 2011 enjoyed back-to-back victories in the Queen Elizabeth II Commemorative Cup in Kyoto, and his family has long been interlinked with Japan -- his father John was among the first foreign trainers to be invited over.