When it comes to rock 'n' roll on the radio today -- outside the ghetto of rock-only stations --- to paraphrase punk patriarch Lou Reed, there's almost nothing going down at all. Take a look at the Billboard singles charts in 2011. The only relatively new artists to successfully cross over from the rock and alternative rock charts to the Hot 100 have been Mumford and Sons and Foster the People, and the ubiquitous genre-buster Adele has gone the other direction. As radio has become more stratified, the Top 40 format appears to have marginalized rock, focusing on tempo-driven pop, R&B, dance music and hip-hop. It's like 1989 to 1991 all over again, when the likes of Milli Vanilli, Bell Biv Devoe and Roxette dominated the airwaves and the charts. Pearl Jam's debut "Ten" came first. A few weeks later, Nirvana released its second album, "Nevermind," a disc rife with noise, but also verse-chorus-verse pop structures. It quickly burned up the charts behind its lead single, "Smells Like Teen Spirit." Nirvana had just finished a two-week tour of Europe, opening for the underground trailblazers Sonic Youth. Filmmaker David Markey documented the tour, then returned home with his film. Soon, he realized his movie, "1991: The Year Punk Broke" (which was released on DVD on September 13), was going to have an adjusted focus. "Every day, we'd come into the editing room (and say), 'Oh, yeah. "It was just surreal. The success of Nirvana and the "grunge" movement helped open the doors for hundreds of other "alternative" (as "college radio" was re-named) acts. Without "Nevermind," commercial radio stations probably may not have played the singles from underground veterans like Butthole Surfers or Cobain's heroes the Meat Puppets. While many rock bands and "movements" have garnered critical acclaim over the intervening two decades, commercial success is harder to come by, as radio is locking rock out of the mainstream again, says Silvio Pietroluongo, Billboard magazine's director of charts.